So what is async await all about? Async and await are two keywords which are part of the core
javascript language,
they're not an exclusive part of the nodejs runtime,
they are also available in modern browsers or in frontend projects,
they're not part of nodejs but you can use them in nodejs projects.
The question of course is what do these two keywords do?
Async and await allows you to write asynchronous requests, so requests where you have some operation
that takes a little while and comes back later in a synchronous way and you see there is an asterisk
after synchronous way because async and await allows you to write asynchronous statements in a
way that looks synchronous but it still isn't a synchronous request.
Now this is of course very abstract,
so let's simply dive into our existing nodejs code
and let me show you which parts of it you could change to use async and await and then it will become
very clear what it does.
I'm back in my nodejs
backend application here
and let me point out that as I mentioned, you could also use async await in the react application
but this is no react course
so I will leave this code untouched and I will go back to my node application.
Now how can we use async
and await?
Well if you go into your feed controller, you'll see that there we have an asynchronous operation, post
find. How can you see or how can you identify asynchronous operations?
Well for example when you're using
promises. Promises are a typical construct that help you deal with asynchronous code because promises
work like that. Post find gets executed and count documents also gets executed immediately
but then this actually, count documents returns a promise or a promise-like object and you then use
then to define a function that should be executed
once this operation here is done and since we access the database here, this typically takes a bit longer.
We're talking about milliseconds here
but still it doesn't happen instantly.
On the opposite, this line and this line get executed after each other instantly, this operation does
essentially not take any time at all, it's so fast
javascript can wait for it to complete and move onto the next step right away. Here
it will not wait for that to complete
and that is why after this statement, javascript would actually move on with the next statement inline,
so if we had another statement on the same level as post find, we would continue with that.
Now in this case we got none but if we would have some code there, like a console log or anything, this
would execute right away, probably or very likely before this or this code or this code was executed and
the reason for that is that with then, we define code snippets or we define functions that should run
in the future
once this longer taking asynchronous operation is done and it's called asynchronous because it doesn't
happen instantly but it takes a little while. Callbacks which we used earlier in the course are another
way of working with asynchronous code,
so here too for count documents,
you could actually and you see that here in the documentation that pops up, you could define a callback
function.
So here you could define a function that gets executed once it's done instead of then
and we don't use callbacks because in there,
we would use that code and then we would need a callback here in the find function and we would
nest all these callbacks leading to very unreadable code.
That is why you often prefer promises even though you could do it with callbacks because there, you have
one then block after each other and it's very readable.
Still it can get more readable with async and await
and that is what I want to show you in the next lecture.